---
slug: welcome
title: Welcome
authors: [puzio]
tags: [official]
---

# Welcome to Panda!

If you've found your way here, you're probably wondering what Panda is all about. The goal of Panda is clear: _make development simple_. There's a lot of complexity in the world of software development, and Panda aims to simplify that complexity by providing a set of tools and patterns that make it easy to build and deploy software.

Let's get into how...

<!-- truncate -->

## What is Panda?

Panda is a many things:

- A framework for building software systems
- A set of individual libraries for building and integrating software components
- A set of tools for building and deploying software
- A collection of development patterns for building software

At its core, Panda is a development system that creates abstract patterned libraries (called "entities") that can be used independently or bundled together to create larger systems or projects. It uses best-in-class libraries as a foundation for each entity, but the abstraction of functionality allows for the creation of parallel entities built using similar libraries or frameworks.

## Why Use Panda?

Simply put, Panda is designed to make your life easier. By providing a set of tools and patterns that simplify the development process, Panda allows you to focus on building great software instead of getting bogged down in the details. Additionally, Panda aims to be flexible and technology-agnostic, so you can use it with your favorite libraries and frameworks.

Here are a few reasons why you might want to use Panda:

- **Simplicity**: Panda provides a simple and consistent way to build software systems, making it easy to get started and build complex systems.
- **Flexibility**: Panda's modular architecture allows you to build systems that are tailored to your specific needs, without being tied to a specific framework or library.
- **Productivity**: By providing a set of tools and patterns that simplify the development process, Panda allows you to build software faster and more efficiently.
- **Community**: Panda is built by developers, for developers. We're always looking for ways to improve Panda and make it better for everyone.

## Vision

Panda's vision is to create a software ecosystem of building blocks that can be easily combined to create complex systems. Imagine being able to build a project of applications, services, commands, component libraries and more, all with a few setup prompts and a little configuration. 

### Immediate Goals

Currently, Panda is focused on building out its core entities, such as `@panda/command` and `@panda/scaffold`. These entities are the building blocks of the Panda ecosystem, and will serve as the foundation for future development.

Once the `@panda/project` entity is complete, Panda will be able to scaffold out a new project with a single command, including all the necessary configuration and setup. The core entities will then be rolled into the `panda` namespace, allowing for easy access to all of Panda's features from one package.

### Future Goals

#### Community-Driven Development

The Panda ecosystem will continue to grow as more entities are added, providing developers with more options and more customization. The goal is to create a vibrant community of developers who are actively contributing to the Panda ecosystem, building new entities, sharing patterns and best practices, and helping each other build better software.

#### Cloud-Driven Development

Panda will eventually integrate with cloud services to provide seamless deployment and scaling of applications. Imagine being able to deploy your application to the cloud with a single command, and have it automatically scale based on demand.

#### AI-Driven Development

The architecture of Panda has AI in mind. Eventually, Panda will be able to suggest patterns and libraries based on the entities you're building, making it easier to build complex systems without having to worry about all the details.

If you've ever wanted to say _"Panda, build me a web app with a CMS, a REST API, a database, and user authentication"_, that's the future we're working towards.

## Getting Started

If you're ready to get started with Panda, check out the [Getting Started](/docs/intro) guide for a step-by-step walkthrough of how to install and use Panda. If you have any questions or need help, feel free to reach out to the Panda community on [Discord](https://discord.gg/sZMTk5nVQ7).
